---
id: 35
title: Chung-Kil Hur (허충길), Term Equational Systems and Logics
postdate: 2008-08-22T15:27:57+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://localhost/~sangil/seminar/?p=32
permalink: /20080811/
categories:
  - "2008"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 허충길
date: 2008-08-11
---
<div class="talk">
  Term Equational Systems and Logics
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~ckh25/">Chung-Kil Hur (허충길)</a><br />Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
</div>

<div class="date">
  2008/08/11 Mon, 4PM-5PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  <p>
    Equational reasoning is fundamental in automated theorem proving (that is, the proving of mathematical theorems by a computer program), and rewriting is a powerful method for equational reasoning. Category theory is a mathematical theory that deals in an abstract way with mathematical structures and relationships between them.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Using category theory, we have developed a framework for equational reasoning. A Term Equational System (TES) is given by a semantic universe and an abstract notion of syntax; and given this, we automatically derive a sound logical deduction system, called Term Equational Logic (TEL). Furthermore, we provide an algebraic free construction for the system, which may be used to synthesize a sound and complete rewriting system for it.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Existing systems arising in this framework include:
  </p>
  
  <ul>
    <li>
      first-order equational logic and rewriting system;
    </li>
    <li>
      combinatory reduction system of Klop;
    </li>
    <li>
      binding equational logic and rewriting system of Hamana; and
    </li>
    <li>
      nominal equational logics independently developed by Gabbay and Matheijssen, and Clouston and Pitts.
    </li>
  </ul>
  
  <p>
     
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Especially, following the above scenario in our framework, we have newly developed a sound and complete rewriting system for nominal equational logic.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    In this talk, rather than going into the technical details, I will focus on explaining basic ideas of category theory and how it can be used in practice.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    This is joint work with Marcelo Fiore.
  </p>
</div>