---
id: 338
title: Eun-Jung Kim (김은정), Solving MAX-r-SAT above a Tight Lower Bound
postdate: 2009-12-21T06:48:44+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=338
permalink: /20091223/
categories:
  - "2009"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 김은정
date: 2009-12-23
---
<div class="talk">
  Solving MAX-r-SAT above a Tight Lower Bound
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  Eun Jung Kim (김은정)<br /><a href="http://www.cs.rhul.ac.uk/">Dept. of Computer Science</a>, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, UK.
</div>

<div class="date">
  2009/12/23 Wed, 4PM-5PM (Room 2411)
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  <p>
    We consider the problem Max-r-SAT, an extensively studied variant of the classic satisfiability problem. Given an instance of CNF (Conjunctive normal form) in which each clause consists of exactly r literals, we seek to find a satisfying truth assignment that maximizes the number of satisfied clauses. Even when r=2, the problem is intractable unless P=NP. Hence the next quest is how close we can get to optimality with moderate usage of computation time/space.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    We present an algorithm that decides, for every fixed r≥2 in time O(m) + 2<sup>O(k<sup>2</sup>)</sup> whether a given set of m clauses of size r admits a truth assignment that satisfies at least ((2<sup>r</sup>-1)m+k)/2<sup>r</sup> clauses. Our algorithm is based on a polynomial-time preprocessing procedure that reduces a problem instance to an equivalent algebraically represented problem with O(k<sup>2</sup>) variables. Moreover, by combining another probabilistic argument with tools from graph matching theory and signed graphs, we show that an instance of Max-2-Sat either is a YES-instance or can be transformed into an equivalent instance of size at most 3k.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    This is a joint work with Noga Alon, Gregory Gutin, Stefan Szeider, and Anders Yeo.
  </p>
</div>