---
id: 1055
title: Eun Jung Kim (김은정), Linear kernels and single-exponential algorithms via protrusion decompositions
postdate: 2012-09-16T16:20:01+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=1055
permalink: /20121019/
categories:
  - "2012"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 김은정
date: 2012-10-19
---
<div class="talk">
  Linear kernels and single-exponential algorithms via protrusion decompositions
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://www.lamsade.dauphine.fr/~kim/">Eun Jung Kim (김은정)</a><br /> CNRS, LAMSADE, Paris, France.
</div>

<div class="date">
  2012/10/19 Fri 4PM-5PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  A <em>t-treewidth-modulator</em> of a graph G is a set X&subseteq;V(G) such that the treewidth of G-X is at most some constant t-1. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm to compute a decomposition scheme for graphs G that come equipped with a t-treewidth-modulator. This decomposition, called a <em>protrusion decomposition</em>, is the cornerstone in obtaining the following two main results.<br /> We first show that any parameterized graph problem (with parameter k) that has <em>finite integer index</em> and is <em>treewidth-bounding</em> admits a linear kernel on H-topological-minor-free graphs, where H is some arbitrary but fixed graph. A parameterized graph problem is called treewidth-bounding if all positive instances have a t-treewidth-modulator of size O(k), for some constant t. This result partially extends previous meta-theorems on the existence of linear kernels on graphs of bounded genus [Bodlaender et al., FOCS 2009] and H-minor-free graphs [Fomin et al., SODA 2010].<br /> Our second application concerns the Planar-F-Deletion problem. Let F be a fixed finite family of graphs containing at least one planar graph. Given an n-vertex graph G and a non-negative integer k, Planar-F-Deletion asks whether G has a set X&subseteq; V(G) such that |X|&le;k and G-X is H-minor-free for every H&in;F. Very recently, an algorithm for Planar-F-Deletion with running time 2<sup>O(k)</sup> n log<sup>2</sup> n (such an algorithm is called <em>single-exponential</em>) has been presented in [Fomin et al., FOCS 2012] under the condition that every graph in F is connected. Using our algorithm to construct protrusion decompositions as a building block, we get rid of this connectivity constraint and present an algorithm for the general Planar-F-Deletion problem running in time 2<sup>O(k)</sup>n<sup>2</sup>.<br /> This is a joint work with Alexander Langer, Christophe Paul, Felix Reidl, Peter Rossmanith, Ignasi Sau, and Somnath Sikdar.
</div>