---
id: 1029
title: Tobias Müller, First Order Logic and Random (Geometric) Graphs
postdate: 2012-08-03T06:54:51+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=1029
permalink: /20120816/
categories:
  - "2012"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - TobiasMuller
date: 2012-08-16
---
<div class="talk">
  First Order Logic and Random (Geometric) Graphs
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://www.math.uu.nl/~Muell001/">Tobias Müller</a><br /> Mathematical Institute, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands
</div>

<div class="date">
  2012/8/16 Thu 4PM-5PM (Room 3433, Bldg. E6-1)
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  We say that a graph property is first order expressible if it can be written as a logic sentence using the universal and existential quantifiers with variables ranging over the nodes of the graph, the usual connectives AND, OR, NOT, parentheses and the relations = and ~, where x ~ y means that x and y share an edge. For example, the property that G contains a triangle can be written as<br /> Exists x,y,z : (x ~ y) AND (x ~ z) AND (y ~ z).</p> 
  
  <p>
    Starting from the sixties, first order expressible properties have been studied extensively on the most commonly studied model of random graphs, the Erdos-Renyi model. A number of very attractive and surprising results have been obtained, and by now we have a fairly full description of the behaviour of first order expressible properties on this model.<br /> The Gilbert model of random graphs is obtained as follows. We take n points uniformly at random from the d-dimensional unit torus, and join two points by an edge if and only their distance is at most r.<br /> In this talk I will discuss joint work with S. Haber which tells a nearly complete story on first order expressible properties of the Gilbert random graph model. In particular we settle several conjectures of McColm and of Agarwal-Spencer.<br /> (Joint with S. Haber)
  </p>
</div>