---
id: 1100
title: KAIST Graph Theory Day 2012
postdate: 2012-11-29T15:10:02+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=1100
permalink: /20121213/
categories:
  - "2012"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - colloquium
  - DanielKral
  - MariaChudnovsky
  - PaulSeymour
  - TomasKaiser
date: 2012-12-13
---
<div class="talk">
  KAIST Graph Theory Day 2012
</div>

<div class="date">
  2012/12/13 Thursday (Room: 3433, Building E6-1)
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  <p>
    List of speakers
  </p>
  
  <ul>
    <li>
      11AM-12PM <a title="Tomáš Kaiser" href="http:/www.KMA.zcu.cz/Tomas.Kaiser">Tomáš Kaiser</a> (University of West Bohemia, Czech Republic) : Applications of the matroid-complex intersection theorem
    </li>
    <li>
      1:30PM-2:30PM <a title="Paul Seymour" href="http://math.princeton.edu/~pds/">Paul Seymour</a> (Princeton University, USA) : Graphs, Tournaments, Colouring and Containment
    </li>
    <li>
      2:45PM-3:45PM  <a title="Maria Chudnovsky" href="http://www.columbia.edu/~mc2775/">Maria Chudnovsky</a> (Columbia University, USA) : Excluding paths and antipaths
    </li>
    <li>
      4:30PM-5:30PM <a title="Daniel Kráľ" href="http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/maths/people/staff/daniel_kral/">Daniel Kráľ</a> (University of Warwick, UK) : Quasirandomness and property testing of permutations <strong>(Colloquium)</strong>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>

* * *

<div class="talk">
  Applications of the matroid-complex intersection theorems
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  Tomáš Kaiser
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  The Matroid intersection theorem of Edmonds gives a formula for the maximum size of a common independent set in two matroids on the same ground set. Aharoni and Berger generalized this theorem to the `topological&#8217; setting where one of the matroids is replaced by an arbitrary simplicial complex. I will present two applications of this result to graph-theoretical problems. The first application is related to the existence of spanning 2-walks in tough graphs, the other one is more recent and gives a bound on the fractional arboricity of a graph G ensuring that G can be covered by k forests and a matching. In both cases, slightly better results can be obtained by other methods, but there seems to be room for improvement on the topological side as well.
</div>

* * *

<div class="talk">
  Graphs, tournaments, colouring and containment
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  Paul Seymour
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  Some tournaments H are <em>heroes</em>; they have the property that all tournaments not containing H as a subtournament have bounded chromatic number (colouring a tournament means partitioning its vertex-set into transitive subsets). In joint work with eight authors, we found all heroes explicitly. That was great fun, and it would be nice to find an analogue for graphs instead of tournaments.<br /> The problem is too trivial for graphs, if we only exclude one graph H; but it becomes fun again if we exclude a finite set of graphs. The Gyarfas-Sumner conjecture says that if we exclude a forest and a clique then chromatic number is bounded. So what other combinations of excluded subgraphs will give bounded chromatic (or cochromatic) number? It turns out (assuming the Gyarfas-Sumner conjecture) that for any finite set S of graphs, the graphs not containing any member of S all have bounded cochromatic number if and only if S contains a complete multipartite graph, the complement of a complete multipartite graph, a forest, and the complement of a forest.<br /> Proving this led us to the following: for every complete multipartite graph H, and every disjoint union of cliques J, there is a number n with the following property. For every graph G, if G contains neither of H,J as an induced subgraph, then V(G) can be partitioned into two sets such that the first contains no n-vertex clique and the second no n-vertex stable set.<br /> In turn, this led us (with Alex Scott) to the following stronger result. Let H be the disjoint union of H_1,H_2, and let J be obtained from the disjoint union of J_1,J_2 by making every vertex of J_1 adjacent to every vertex of J_2. Then there is a number n such that for every graph G containing neither of H,J as an induced subgraph, V(G) can be partitioned into n sets such that for each of them, say X, one of H_1,H_2,J_1,J_2 is not contained in G|X.<br /> How about a tournament analogue of this? It exists, and the same (short) proof works; and this leads to a short proof of the most difficult result of the heroes paper that we started with.<br /> There are a number of other related results and open questions. Joint work with Maria Chudnovsky.
</div>

* * *

<div class="talk">
  Excluding paths and antipaths
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  Maria Chudnovsky
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  The Erdos-Hajnal conjecture states that for every graph H, there exists a constant delta(H)>0, such that every n-vertex graph with no induced subgraph isomorphic to H contains a clique or a stable set of size at least n^delta(H). This conjecture is still open. We consider a variant of the conjecture, where instead of excluding a single graph H as an induced subgraph, a family of graphs is excluded. We prove this modified conjecture for the case when the five-edge path and its complement are excluded. Our second result is an asymmetric version of this: we prove that for every graph G such that G contains no induced six-edge path, and the complement of G contains no induced four-edge path, G contains a polynomial-size clique or stable set. This is joint work with Paul Seymour.
</div>

* * *

<div class="talk">
  Quasirandomness and property testing of permutations
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  Daniel Kráľ
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  A systematic study of large combinatorial objects has recently led to discovering many connections between discrete mathematics and analysis. In this talk, we explore the analytic view of large permutations. We associate every sequence of permutations with a measure on a unit square and show the following: if the density of every 4-element subpermutations in a permutation p is 1/4!+o(1), then the density of every k-element subpermutation is 1/k!+o(1). This solves a question of Graham whether quasirandomness of a permutation is captured by densities of its 4-element subpermutations. At the end of the talk, we present a result related to an area of computer science called property testing. A property tester is an algorithm which determines (with a small error probability) properties of a large input object based on a small sample of it. Specifically, we prove a conjecture of Hoppen, Kohayakawa, Moreira and Sampaio asserting that hereditary properties of permutations are testatble with respect to the so-called Kendal&#8217;s tau distance.<br /> The results in this talk were obtained jointly with Tereza Klimosova or Oleg Pikhurko.
</div>