---
id: 2035
title: Charilaos Efthymiou, A Simple Algorithm for Sampling Colourings of G(n, d/n) Up to Gibbs Uniqueness Threshold
postdate: 2015-05-29T13:55:55+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2035
permalink: /20150610/
categories:
  - "2015"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - CharilaosEfthymiou
date: 2015-06-10
---
<div class="talk">
  A Simple Algorithm for Sampling Colourings of G(n, d/n) Up to Gibbs<br /> Uniqueness Threshold
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/charisefthymiou/">Charilaos Efthymiou</a><br /> Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA
</div>

<div class="date">
  2015/6/<strong>10 Wed</strong> 4PM-5PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  Approximate random k-colouring of a graph G=(V,E) is a very well<br /> studied problem in computer science, discrete mathematics and<br /> statistical physics. It amounts to constructing a k-colouring of G<br /> which is distributed close to Gibbs distribution in polynomial time.<br /> In this talk, we deal with the problem when the underlying graph is an<br /> instance of Erdos-Renyi random graph G(n,d/n), where d is fixed. In<br /> this paper we propose a novel efficient algorithm for approximate<br /> random k-colouring G(n,d/n). To be more specific, with probability at<br /> least 1-n<sup>-Ω(1)</sup> over the input instances G(n,d/n) and for kgeq<br /> (1+ε)d, the algorithm returns a k-colouring which is distributed<br /> within total variation distance n<sup>-Ω(1)</sup> from the Gibbs<br /> distribution of the input graph. The algorithm we propose is neither a<br /> MCMC one nor inspired by the message passing algorithms proposed by<br /> statistical physicists. Roughly the idea is as follows: Initially we<br /> remove sufficiently many edges of the input graph. This results in a<br /> graph which can be coloured randomly efficiently. Then we move back<br /> the removed edges one by one. Every time we add an edge we update the<br /> colouring of the graph, with the new edge, so that the colouring<br /> remains (sufficiently) random. The performance depends heavily on<br /> certain spatial correlation decay properties of the Gibbs<br /> distribution.
</div>