---
id: 2187
title: 'O-joung Kwon (권오정),  Generalized feedback vertex set problems on bounded-treewidth graphs'
postdate: 2016-10-19T21:57:35+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2187
permalink: /2016-11-25/
categories:
  - "2016"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 권오정
date: 2016-11-25
---
<div class="talk">
  Generalized feedback vertex set problems on bounded-treewidth graphs
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~ojkwon/">O-joung Kwon (권오정)</a><br /> Technische Universitat Berlin, Berin, Germany
</div>

<div class="date">
  2016/11/25 Fri 4PM-5PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  It has long been known that Feedback Vertex Set can be solved in time 2<sup>O(w log w)</sup>n<sup>O(1)</sup> on graphs of treewidth w, but it was only recently that this running time was improved to 2<sup>O(w)</sup>n<sup>O(1)</sup>, that is, to single-exponential parameterized by treewidth. We consider a natural generalization of this problem, which asks given a graph G on n vertices and positive integers k and d, whether there is a set S of at most k vertices of G such that each block of G-S has at most d vertices. The central question of this talk is: &#8220;Can we obtain an algorithm that runs in single-exponential time parameterized by treewidth, for every fixed d?&#8221; The answer is negative. But then, one may be curious which properties of Feedback Vertex Set that make it allow to have a single-exponential algorithm. To answer this question, we add an additional condition in the general problem, and provide a dichotomy result.<br /> Formally, for a class ? of graphs, the Bounded ?-Block Vertex Deletion problem asks, given a graph G on n vertices and positive integers k and d, whether there is a set S of at most k vertices of G such that each block of G-S has at most d vertices and is in ?. Assuming that ? is recognizable in polynomial time and satisfies a certain natural hereditary condition, we give a sharp characterization of when single-exponential parameterized algorithms are possible for fixed values of d:</p> 
  
  <ul>
    <li>
      if ? consists only of chordal graphs, then the problem can be solved in time 2<sup>O(wd^2)</sup>n<sup>O(1)</sup>,
    </li>
    <li>
      if ? contains a graph with an induced cycle of length &ell;≥4, then the problem is not solvable in time 2<sup>o(w log w)</sup> n<sup>O(1)</sup> even for fixed d=&ell;, unless the ETH fails.
    </li>
  </ul>
  
  <p>
    We further show that it is W[1]-hard parameterized by only treewidth, when ? consists of all graphs. This is joint work with Édouard Bonnet, Nick Brettell, and Daniel Marx.
  </p>
</div>