---
id: 2115
title: Hyung-Chan An (안형찬), LP-based Algorithms for Capacitated Facility Location
postdate: 2016-03-12T23:46:06+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2115
permalink: /20160406/
categories:
  - "2016"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 안형찬
date: 2016-04-06
---
<div class="talk">
  LP-based Algorithms for Capacitated Facility Location
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://theory.epfl.ch/anhc/">Hyung-Chan An (안형찬)</a><br /> Department of Computer Science, Yonsei University, Seoul
</div>

<div class="date">
  2016/4/6 Wed 4PM-5PM <em>(Room 3433 of Bldg. E6-1)</em>
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  Linear programming has played a key role in the study of algorithms for combinatorial optimization problems. In the field of approximation algorithms, this is well illustrated by the uncapacitated facility location problem. A variety of algorithmic methodologies, such as LP-rounding and primal-dual method, have been applied to and evolved from algorithms for this problem. Unfortunately, this collection of powerful algorithmic techniques had not yet been applicable to the more general capacitated facility location problem. In fact, all of the known algorithms with good performance guarantees were based on a single technique, local search, and no linear programming relaxation was known to efficiently approximate the problem.<br /> In this paper, we present a linear programming relaxation with constant integrality gap for capacitated facility location. We demonstrate that the fundamental theories of multi-commodity flows and matchings provide key insights that lead to the strong relaxation. Our algorithmic proof of integrality gap is obtained by finally accessing the rich toolbox of LP-based methodologies: we present a constant factor approximation algorithm based on LP-rounding.<br /> Joint work with <a href="http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/mohits/">Mohit Singh</a> and <a href="http://theory.epfl.ch/osven/">Ola Svensson</a>.
</div>