---
id: 2143
title: Chun-Hung Liu, Packing and covering topological minors and immersions
postdate: 2016-06-10T13:14:05+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2143
permalink: /20160629-2/
categories:
  - "2016"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - Chun-HungLiu
date: 2016-06-29
---
<div class="talk">
  Packing and covering topological minors and immersions
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="https://web.math.princeton.edu/~chliu/">Chun-Hung Liu</a><br /> Department of Mathematics, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA
</div>

<div class="date">
  2016/06/29 Wed 4PM-5PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  A set F of graphs has the Erdős-Posa property if there exists a function f such that every graph either contains k disjoint subgraphs each isomorphic to a member in F or contains a set of at most f(k) vertices intersecting all such subgraphs. In this talk I will address the Erdős-Posa property with respect to three closely related graph containment relations: minor, topological minor, and immersion. We denote the set of graphs containing H as a minor, topological minor and immersion by M(H),T(H) and I(H), respectively. Robertson and Seymour in 1980&#8217;s proved that M(H) has the Erdős-Posa property if and only if H is planar. And they left the question for characterizing H in which T(H) has the Erdős-Posa property in the same paper. This characterization is expected to be complicated as T(H) has no Erdős-Posa property even for some tree H. In this talk, I will present joint work with Postle and Wollan for providing such a characterization. For immersions, it is more reasonable to consider an edge-variant of the Erdős-Posa property: packing edge-disjoint subgraphs and covering them by edges. I(H) has no this edge-variant of the Erdős-Posa property even for some tree H. However, I will prove that I(H) has the edge-variant of the Erdős-Posa property for every graph H if the host graphs are restricted to be 4-edge-connected. The 4-edge-connectivity cannot be replaced by the 3-edge-connectivity.
</div>