---
id: 2253
title: O-joung Kwon (권오정), On low rank-width colorings
postdate: 2017-05-14T22:47:37+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2253
permalink: /2017-06-09/
categories:
  - "2017"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 권오정
date: 2017-06-09
---
<div class="talk">
  On low rank-width colorings
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~ojkwon/">O-joung Kwon (권오정)</a><br /> Technische Universitat Berlin, Berin, Germany
</div>

<div class="date">
  2017/6/09 <strong>Friday 11AM</strong>
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  We introduce the concept of low rank-width colorings, generalizing the notion of low tree-depth colorings introduced by Nešetřil and Ossona de Mendez in <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejc.2006.07.013">[Grad and classes with bounded expansion I. Decompositions. EJC 2008]</a>. We say that a class ? of graphs admits low rank-width colorings if there exist functions N:ℕ→ℕ and Q:ℕ→ℕ such that for all p∈ℕ, every graph G∈? can be vertex colored with at most N(p) colors such that the union of any i≤p color classes induces a subgraph of rank-width at most Q(i).<br /> Graph classes admitting low rank-width colorings strictly generalize graph classes admitting low tree-depth colorings and graph classes of bounded rank-width. We prove that for every graph class ? of bounded expansion and every positive integer r, the class {G<sup>r</sup>: G∈?} of r-th powers of graphs from ?, as well as the classes of unit interval graphs and bipartite permutation graphs admit low rank-width colorings. All of these classes have unbounded rank-width and do not admit low tree-depth colorings. We also show that the classes of interval graphs and permutation graphs do not admit low rank-width colorings. In this talk, we provide the color refinement technique necessary to show the first result. This is joint work with Sebastian Sierbertz and Michał Pilipczuk.
</div>