---
id: 2264
title: Euiwoong Lee (이의웅), FPT Approximation Algorithms for Graph Problems
postdate: 2017-06-09T19:25:26+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2264
permalink: /2017-07-06/
categories:
  - "2017"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 이의웅
date: 2017-07-06
---
<div class="talk">
  FPT Approximation Algorithms for Graph Problems
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~euiwoonl/">Euiwoong Lee (이의웅)</a><br /> Computer Science Department, Carnegie Mellon University
</div>

<div class="date">
  2017/07/06 Thu 4PM-5PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  Approximation algorithms and fixed-parameter tractable (FPT) algorithms have been two major ways to deal with NP-hardness of combinatorial optimization problems. The notion of FPT approximation can be naturally defined, and it is getting significant attention recently. Starting from gentle introductions to approximation algorithms and FPT algorithms, I will talk about my three recent results on FPT approximability.<br /> &#8211; Given a graph G = (V, E) and an integer k, we study k-Vertex Separator, where the goal is to remove the minimum number of vertices such that each connected component in the resulting graph has at most k vertices. We give an O(log k)-FPT approximation algorithm for k-Vertex Separator. Our result improves the best previous graph partitioning algorithms.<br /> &#8211; We also study k-Path Transversal, where the goal is to remove the minimum number of vertices such that there is no simple path of length k. We present an O(log k)-FPT approximation algorithm for k-Path Transversal. There was no nontrivial approximation algorithm for k > 4 before this work.<br /> &#8211; Finally, k-cut is the problem where we want to remove the minimum number of edges such that the graph has at least k connected components. We give a (2 &#8211; ε)-FPT approximation algorithm for some epsilon > 0, improving upon a (non-FPT) 2-approximation.<br /> The third result is joint work with Anupam Gupta and Jason Li.
</div>