---
id: 2428
title: Eun Jung Kim (김은정), New algorithm for multiway cut guided by strong min-max duality
postdate: 2018-12-17T23:41:19+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: https://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2428
permalink: /2019-01-04/
categories:
  - "2019"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 김은정
date: 2019-01-04
---
IBS/KAIST Joint Discrete Math Seminar

<div class="talk">
  New algorithm for multiway cut guided by strong min-max duality
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://www.lamsade.dauphine.fr/~kim/">Eun Jung Kim (김은정)</a><br /> CNRS, LAMSADE, Paris, France
</div>

<div class="date">
  2019/01/04 Fri 4PM-5PM (Room: DIMAG, IBS)
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  <p>
    Problems such as Vertex Cover and Multiway Cut have been well-studied in parameterized complexity. Cygan et al. 2011 drastically improved the running time of several problems including Multiway Cut and Almost 2SAT by employing LP-guided branching and aiming for FPT algorithms parameterized above LP lower bounds. Since then, LP-guided branching has been studied in depth and established as a powerful technique for parameterized algorithms design.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    In this talk, we make a brief overview of LP-guided branching technique and introduce the latest results whose parameterization is above even stronger lower bounds, namely μ(I)=2LP(I)-IP(dual-I). Here, LP(I) is the value of an optimal fractional solution and IP(dual-I) is the value of an optimal integral dual solution. Tutte-Berge formula for Maximum Matching (or equivalently Edmonds-Gallai decomposition) and its generalization Mader’s min-max formula are exploited to this end. As a result, we obtain an algorithm running in time 4<sup>k-μ(I)</sup>for multiway cut and its generalizations, where k is the budget for a solution.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    This talk is based on a joint work with Yoichi Iwata and Yuichi Yoshida from NII.
  </p>
</div>