---
id: 2382
title: Jineon Baek, On the off-diagonal Erdős-Szekeres convex polygon problem
postdate: 2018-08-29T09:48:38+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: https://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2382
permalink: /2018-09-10/
categories:
  - "2018"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 백진언
date: 2018-09-10
---
<div class="talk">
  On the off-diagonal Erdős-Szekeres convex polygon problem
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="_URL_OF_THE_SPEAKER_PERSONAL_WEBSITE">Jineon Baek (백진언)</a><br /> NIMS, Daejeon
</div>

<div class="date">
  2018/09/10 Mon 5PM-6PM (Room 1401 of Bldg. E6-1)
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  The infamous Erdős-Szekeres conjecture, posed in 1935, states that the minimum number ES(n) of points on a plane in general position (that is, no three colinear points) that guarantees a subset of n points in convex position is equal to 2<sup>(n-2)</sup> + 1. Despite many years of effort, the upper bound of ES(n) had not been better than O(4<sup>n &#8211; o(n)</sup>) until Suk proved the groundbreaking result ES(n)≤2<sup>n+o(n)</sup> in 2016.<br /> In this talk, we focus on a variant of this problem by Erdős, Tuza and Valtr regarding the number ETV(a, b, n) of points needed to force either an a-cup, b-cap or a convex n-gon for varying a, b and n. They showed ETV(a, b, n) > \sum_{i=n-b}^{a-2} \binom{n}{i-2} by supplying a set of points with no a-cup, b-cap nor a n-gon of that many number, and conjectured that the inequality cannot be improved. Due to their construction, the conjecture is in fact equivalent to the Erdős-Szekeres conjecture. However, even the simplest equality ETV(4, n, n) = \binom{n+1}{2} + 1, which must be true if the Erdős-Szekeres conjecture is, has not been verified yet. To the best of our knowledge, the bound ETV(4, n, n) ≤ \binom{n + 2}{2} &#8211; 1, mentioned by Balko and Valtr in 2015, is currently the best bound known in literature.<br /> The talk is divided into two parts. First, we introduce the mentioned works on the Erdős-Szekeres conjecture and observe that the argument of Suk can be directly adapted to prove an improved bound of ETV(a, n, n). Then we show the bound ETV(4, n, n) ≤ \binom{n+2}{2} &#8211; C \sqrt{n} for a fixed constant C>0, improving the previously known best bound of Balko and Valtr.
</div>