---
id: 2403
title: Dong Yeap Kang (강동엽), On the rational Turán exponents conjecture
postdate: 2018-09-27T10:28:34+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: https://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2403
permalink: /2018-11-05/
categories:
  - "2018"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
tags:
  - 강동엽
date: 2018-11-05
---
<div class="talk">
  On the rational Turán exponents conjecture
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="http://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~dykang/">Dong Yeap Kang (강동엽)</a><br /> Department of Mathematical Sciences, KAIST
</div>

<div class="date">
  2018/11/5 Mon 5PM-6PM
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  The extremal number ex(n,F) of a graph F is the maximum number of edges in an n-vertex graph not containing F as a subgraph. A real number r∈[1,2] is <em>realisable</em> if there exists a graph F with ex(n , F) = &Theta;(n<sup>r</sup>). Several decades ago, Erdős and Simonovits conjectured that every rational number in [1,2] is realisable. Despite decades of effort, the only known realisable numbers are 1,7/5,2, and the numbers of the form 1+(1/m), 2-(1/m), 2-(2/m) for integers m≥1. In particular, it is not even known whether the set of all realisable numbers contains a single limit point other than two numbers 1 and 2.<br /> We discuss some recent progress on the conjecture of Erdős and Simonovits. First, we show that 2-(a/b) is realisable for any integers a,b≥1 with b>a and b≡±1 (mod a). This includes all previously known ones, and gives infinitely many limit points 2-(1/m) in the set of all realisable numbers as a consequence.<br /> Secondly, we propose a conjecture on subdivisions of bipartite graphs. Apart from being interesting on its own, we show that, somewhat surprisingly, this subdivision conjecture in fact implies that every rational number between 1 and 2 is realisable.<br /> This is joint work with Jaehoon Kim and Hong Liu.
</div>