---
id: 2467
title: Xin Zhang, On equitable tree-colorings of graphs
postdate: 2019-04-16T05:33:10+09:00
author: sangil
layout: post
guid: https://mathsci.kaist.ac.kr/~sangil/seminar/?p=2467
permalink: /2019-05-16/
categories:
  - "2019"
  - KAIST Discrete Math Seminar
date: 2019-05-16
---
IBS/KAIST Joint Discrete Math Seminar

<div class="talk">
  On equitable tree-colorings of graphs
</div>

<div class="speaker">
  <a href="https://faculty.xidian.edu.cn/zhangxin/en">Xin Zhang (张欣)</a><br /> Xidian Univeristy, China
</div>

<div class="date">
  2019/05/16 4:30PM-5:30PM (IBS, B232)
</div>

<div class="abstract">
  An equitable tree-k-coloring of a graph is a vertex coloring using k distinct colors such that every color class (i.e, the set of vertices in a common color) induces a forest and the sizes of any two color classes differ by at most one. The minimum integer k such that a graph G is equitably tree-k-colorable is the equitable vertex arboricity of G, denoted by va<sub>eq</sub>(G). A graph that is equitably tree-k-colorable may admits no equitable tree-k′-coloring for some k′>k. For example, the complete bipartite graph K<sub>9,9</sub> has an equitable tree-2-coloring but is not equitably tree-3-colorable. In view of this a new chromatic parameter so-called the equitable vertex arborable threshold is introduced. Precisely, it is the minimum integer k such that G has an equitable tree-k′-coloring for any integer k′≥k, and is denoted by va<sup>∗</sup><sub>eq</sub>(G). The concepts of the equitable vertex arboricity and the equitable vertex arborable threshold were introduced by J.-L. Wu, X. Zhang and H. Li in 2013. In 2016, X. Zhang also introduced the list analogue of the equitable tree-k-coloring. There are many interesting conjectures on the equitable (list) tree-colorings, one of which, for example, conjectures that every graph with maximum degree at most Δ is equitably tree-k-colorable for any integer k≥(Δ+1)/2, i.e, va<sup>∗</sup><sub>eq</sub>(G)≤⌈(Δ+1)/2⌉. In this talk, I review the recent progresses on the studies of the equitable tree-colorings from theoretical results to practical algorithms, and also share some interesting problems for further research.
</div>